# Monte Carlo simulation to assess properties of methods from the peims package for R

## Background  
A Monte Carlo simulation is a computational experiment to assess for example properties of statistical methods, e.g. the accuracy of a parameter of interest, based on a known or predefined data-generating process and repeated random sampling. This protocol details the design of a Monte Carlo simulation to assess statistical properties of methods from the peims package for R. The peims package implements a S4 class and its methods for parameter estimation considering instability in model selection using bootstrapping. Accordingly, the accuracy of the parameter of interest and the empirical coverage probability of its corresponding confidence interval are of particular interest. The objectives of this Monte Carlo simulation are therefore twofold: (1) to assess the accuracy of the expected value of a parameter of interest, and (2) to evaluate the empirical coverage probability of its corresponding confidence interval with respect to different scenarios (i.e. varying number of events, sample size, and number of variables). Furthermore, comparisons between different confidence interval estimation procedures (i.e. (bias-corrected) smoothed, percentile and standard confidence interval) will be made.

## Simulation procedure
Monte Carlo simulations are computationally intensive. Accordingly, this Monte Carlo simulation will be conducted using on-demand scalable computing capacity of the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2). More specifically, a Linux virtual private server optimized for high-performance computing will be launched using a c4.4xlarge instance on an Intel Xeon E5-2666 v3 processor (2.9 GHz) with 16 virtual central processing units. A multi-core processor is required as parallel processing leads to considerable speed-up. The performance advantage of parallel processing is shown in Figure X.  
In total, 250 simulations will be executed for each scenario. The state of the pseudo-random number generator (Mersenne-Twister) will be set before the start of simulation using a randomly drawn seed in order to ensure full independence between generated data sets and for reasons of reproducability. The complete Monte Carlo simulation will be conducted using an EC2 instance with R Version 3.5.1 on Linux (x86-64).  

## Data-generating mechanisms
The eighteen underlying variables will be generated using a normal copula. A copula is a joint cumulative distribution function with uniform marginal probability distributions, and allows to model stochastic dependencies between random variables more flexible. Probability distributions of these random variables, their parameter specifications, and their correlations are shown in Figure X.  

## Scenarios
